Stands for <span style="color:#e1db3d">Simple Storage Service</span> (S3), was launched in 2006 and was amazon's first service. Its a type of general object storage, any type of file, irrespective of size (max, 5 TB) can be stored here, although its tailored to key - object style of storage which is good for cloud applications. The pricing is also very cheap. other benefits include Scalability, Availability and Durability.

###### Applications:
- Website hosting, storing static HTML,CSS,JS.
- Database backups.
- Data processing pipelines.

###### Storing Data:
The concept of bucket: The bucket is like the top level folder in a file system. The name of the bucket must be globally unique. The entities that go into the buckets are objects, these objects are any types of files.
To retrieve content, one may use a URL of such type: "https://s3.amazonaws/{BucketNaame}/{ObjectName}/"
There are also libraries that could be use to get objects. There is the AWS Web Console.

###### S3 Storage Classes
Since S3 is used for a wide variety of applications, the requirements are not same in terms of availability, latency...etc for an archival storage vs hosting website assets. So there are storage classes in the order of decreasing pricing and availability and increasing latency.
Standard -> Intelligent -> Infrequent Access -> Glacier. One may set rules (Lifecycle rules) for data to be shifted to these different types of storage environments as the need changes.

###### Security

###### Use cases
<span style="color:#e1db3d">Data Ingestion Pipelines</span>: Taking in larges amounts of data, through something like [[Kinesis]] Firehose. So the firehose can collect events like stock market price changes and alerts. When the data reached some size it will be transferred to S3.
We can have events, events are triggered when objects are created/modified/deleted which runs some [[Lambda]].

<span style="color:#e1db3d">Analytics</span>: [[Athena]] can be used to run any type of queries on the data in S3, it does not allocate any database servers. Runs on pay per use principle. Further one can use [[Quicksight]] for dash-boarding the data, create histograms, tableau etc ...

<span style="color:#e1db3d">Event Driven Architecture</span>: Uploading images for some processing, the images can be uploaded to S3, this can in turn trigger a PUT event, which runs a [[Lambda]] for the processing. After that we can trigger an event to notify the customer that the processing is completed.

###### Pricing
Storage Class dependent
Other than that there are three main factors:
- Storage - More data more cost
- Access - How many times is it accessed.
- Transfer - How much data gets transferred.